AIRC Weekly Gaza Report - August 24th to 30th, 2025

International Organisations & Diplomacy
Turkish Foreign Minister, Mr. Hakan Fidan, affirmed the cutting of economic and trade ties with the Zionist entity, closing its airspace to Zionist aircraft, and exposing its ongoing crimes against our Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip.
Condemnation statements by foreign ministers of Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Slovenia, and Spain of the Zionist aggression in Gaza City. 
Reporters Without Borders and the AVAAZ platform campaign against the occupation’s targeting of Palestinian journalists in Gaza. 
Despite the Resistance Movement’s announcement of its acceptance of the Egyptian-Qatari proposal, the US Envoy Steve Witkoff claims Hamas is obstructing ceasefire negotiations. 
Members of the UN Security Council, without US participation, call for an “immediate, permanent and unconditional ceasefire” in Gaza, affirming that the use of starvation as a weapon is prohibited under international humanitarian law.

Israeli Government & the Knesset 
The occupation’s finance minister, Smotrich, called for the cutting off of water, electricity, and food from Gaza, stating that "those who do not die from bullets will die of hunger,” also suggesting forced displacement as a solution to implement the annexation of Gaza.
Israel via X/Twitter (in English) stated that the “double-tap” method on the Nasser Hospital was a mistake. This is contrary to what was said (in Hebrew) by those in the IOF. Others, part of the Zionist entity, wrote that they  were offended that their efforts were labeled as a mistake, since the higher-ups deliberately planned the attack

Resistance Movement Actions
Hamas stated that none of the 22 people killed in the attack on Nasser Hospital was a member of the Palestinian movement, after the Israeli military claimed it had targeted a Hamas surveillance camera.
On August 30th, the Palestinian Resistance captured Israeli Occupation Soldiers in the Zaytoun Operation.

Israeli Military Operations
Continued brutal assaults on Gaza City, committing massacres, destroying residential neighbourhoods, and civilian facilities. Bombarding residential areas, declaring plans to destroy Gaza City, and forcibly expelling its population. 
The occupation army bombed Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis, killing 22 civilians, mostly journalists, medical staff, and civil defense personnel. Assassination of journalists Hussam Al-Masri, Muhammad Salama, Maryam Abu Daqqa, Ahmed Abu Aziz, and Muath Abu Taha.

Blockade: Food & Agriculture
Ten Palestinians starve to death in Gaza as Israeli Forces kill 76 on August 27th
Human Rights Watch describes Israel’s aid distribution as having led to “regular bloodbaths.”
According to FA, the GHF’s process of distribution is leading to mass casualty incidents on an almost daily basis at or near the four GHF sites
More than 1,300 people have been killed while trying to obtain aid at GHF sites since May, and in July alone, 729 people were killed

International Action & Activism
Reuters journalist Valerie Zink resigns over outlet’s response to Israel’s killing of journalists at Nasser Hospital