AIRC Weekly Gaza Report - September 7th to 13th, 2025

Information

Jerusalem Operation
20 killed and wounded in a special arms operation
Resistance fighters boarded a bus carrying a number of occupation soldiers in occupied Jerusalem. The occupation announced the killing of 6 occupation soldiers and 13 wounded.
Martyrs and conductors of the operation were residents of the West Bank.

Special Operations in Gaza
5 Israeli soldiers killed and 7 others injured by the Palestinian resistance.
Palestinian resistance fighter climbs into Merkava tank, kills the commander, and throws an explosive device inside the tank before withdrawing, killing everyone inside. The occupation announced the death of 4 as a result.
The al-Qassam Brigades used heavy mortar shells on a gathering of occupation soldiers around al-Muheet Mills in the Morag axis

Occupation Aggression
Zionist occupation targets the Freedom Flotilla on the Tunisian coast.
Destroys Egyptian towers west of Gaza City.
Targeted a tent housing displaced people in the Gaza port.
Occupation destroys Ibn Taymiyyah Mosque in Deir al-Balah, central Gaza Strip.
The occupation orders the evacuation of the entirety of Gaza city: bombing dozens of buildings and residential buildings in the areas of Al-Sahaba, Al-Karama, Al-Mukhabarat, General Security, and Al-Sudaniya, and the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood, and targeting tents of displaced peoples in the west of Gaza city.
Netanyahu signs off on an expansion plan that seeks to enlarge settlement land across the West Bank.

Zionist bombing of Doha, Qatar
The US presented a new ceasefire proposal.
The leaders of the Palestinian resistance went to Doha to review this proposal.
The Zionists launched more than 20 raids targeting Hamas, the Palestinian Resistance in Doha.
British and American aircraft were flying in Qatari airspace before the attack, suggesting direct involvement.
Martyrs Jihad Labad and Humam Al-Hayya, the remaining martyrs were residents of other countries, Qatari civilians, and security staff.
“New York Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of the Question of Palestine and the Implementation of the Two-State Solution”:
> 142 countries vote to recognise the State of Palestine within the structure of the two-state solution.
> The declaration calls for Hamas to free all hostages and also hand over its weapons to the Palestinian Authority, as a step towards an independent state.
> Palestine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs encouraged Saudi-French efforts to create an “actionable plan” towards a two-state solution.

Analysis

Israeli Attack on Qatar 
This was likely done with American approval. The new ceasefire proposal was likely presented as a pretence for the attack, which was likely carried out by the Zionist entity with American approval, despite what Trump claims. This is similar to what occurred in Tehran, Iran, where the Zionist occupation and the Zionist American government seek to disrupt and kill the key Palestinian negotiators for a ceasefire. It is clear that the Israeli occupation does not want a ceasefire. The occupation, spearheaded by Netanyahu, as evidenced through their actions, does not wish to end the war and genocide. It is suspected that this is because Netanyahu wishes to avoid his arrest, which will be conducted, God-willing, after the end of this genocide and war.
The attack on Doha is a criminal act, violating norms and expected conduct under international law. The United States should also be held responsible for this violation of international law, as it is the U.S. that has permitted this behaviour in the attack on Iran and Doha.
Marco Rubio’s visit to Israel is a poor diplomatic attempt at trying to paint Israel as an overeager independent ally.