AIRC Weekly Gaza Report - August 31st to September 6th, 2025

International Organisations & Diplomacy
Scotland’s Parliament has voted in favor of boycotting Israel and companies complicit in the genocide.
This will halt new public funding for arms companies that supply Israel with weapons or services.

Israeli Government & the Knesset 
Benjamin will continue the war for as long as he can to ensure that he remains prime minister and avoids being tried for corruption.

Resistance Movement Action
Right now, 86.5% of the strip is within Israel’s “shoot to kill” zones, including the only areas that any Palestinians displaced from Gaza City could hope to flee to.
The majority of Israelis do not want to continue fighting the war in Gaza, despite remaining in support of the genocide; this means that Israel is finding it difficult to continue mobilizing troops in Gaza.
Al-Qassam Brigades call the upcoming qualitative operations “Moses’ stick.” 

Israeli Military Operations
Euromed Human Rights Monitor stated that several videos from the IOF show them shooting at civilians for reasons such as “betting on their accuracy.”
Israeli forces have deliberately been using incendiary grenades/bombs to set fire to the tents and buildings of civilians.
In Shikhradwan neighborhood, IOF soldiers have been detonating vehicles with bombs to destroy buildings and targeting civilians with snipers.
Around 300 residential units are destroyed each day by Israeli army robots through explosives.
Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in Deir al-Balah bombed by the occupation.
An Israeli reconnaissance plane mistakenly fired a missile at an Israeli soldiers’ position in the central Gaza strip.
Abu Ubaida has been martyred, the official spokesman Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigades. 
Fire in tents of displaced people after occupation bombs Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood, Gaza city.
Tal al-Hawa neighbourhood bombed.
Safe zone: Israelis called people to evacuate from the northern Gaza strip to move to al-Mawasi in Khan Yunis. But, as people arrive, there is a massacre.
Drone strikes, artillery shelling around al-Iman Mosque and Daghmash Station in al-Sabra neighbourhood.
Bombardment of a group in Sheikh radwan market, north-west Gaza city.

Blockade: Food & Agriculture
On Monday, the Gaza government media office stated that only 15% of the necessary amount of trucks are entering Gaza.
UNRWA: some 660,000 children in Gaza are hungry, desperate.

International Action & Activism 
Last week, more university students from Gaza arrived in Ireland to receive scholarships and complete their studies, completing the planned group of 52. They are relieved to be able to complete their education after Israel has destroyed every school in Gaza, but they remain worried about their families who must stay behind as Israel increases its efforts to colonize Palestine.
Furthermore, journalist and student Abubaker describes that these 52 students do not want to leave their homes and land in Gaza, and that Ireland and other nations must do more to reverse their complicity in Israel’s annihilation of schools.

Resistance Report
Leaks from the Israeli military show they believe Gideon's Chariot 1 was a failure. 
The operation in Gaza City is unpopular in the Israeli military, although there is popular support for the genocide as a whole. People are avoiding drafts. 
Occupation forces use schools and hospitals as military bases and blow them up when they leave them. 
People are called to evacuate northern Gaza, only to be pushed into the already evacuated ‘kill zones’. 